It's time for us to dive a little
bit more deeply into functions and
there were a couple of these early
topics we needed to tackle first.
The union intersection operators for
sure and these named types, right?
Like interfaces, type aliases,
so now we're ready for
this and we already talked about
argument types and return types.
Now we're gonna go deeper, so we're gonna
talk about defining Callable types,
by that I mean,
interfaces that describe functions.
Interfaces are type aliases rather, that
describes something that can be invoked,
or something that can be
constructed using the new keyword.
We're gonna talk about
function overloads and
I won't even attempt to give you a sneak
preview of what that is because it's,
if you've never seen it before,
it's kind of a wild concept.
We'll talk about typing this,
If your function has a special need for
making sure that whenever it's invoked,
it's, this scope is a specific thing.
And then finally I think we covered
this a little bit, but we'll touch
one more time on function return types,
and best practices, so let's jump in.
Type aliases and interfaces,
they both provide some capacity for
defining a call signature.
So this is an interface we're used to
seeing instead of this thing that I've
highlighted, we're used to seeing a bunch
of different property names, right?
Instead we have parentheses and within
them what appears to be an argument list,
and then a colon, and then a return type.
So, this is a callable thing,
in a type aliases form,
this is what it would look like and
note that we're using a fat arrow
here kind of like an arrow function,
whereas up here we're using a colon.
These are totally equivalent,
these top two and we can see here,
we benefit when we do something like this
to define functions stored on variables,
we benefit from having defined
these call signatures.
We don't need to have type
annotations on function arguments.
Usually you always need to, well that's
not gonna use usually an always in
same sentence, but
with regular function declarations,
you must include argument types
because there's no way to infer them.
In this case,
all of the type information you need is on
the left side of the assignment operator.
So we know this is a number, we know this
is a number and we know we should be
returning a number, you don't need
to state that information again.
This is great for
things like callbacks, right?
Where it just saves you from having to
add more and more type annotations.
Sometimes we don't return
anything from functions and
so, scream in the chat or on zoom.
What is the function return if we have
no return statement in JavaScript,
like if we capture the return value and
try to use it, what is it?
Is it 42?
Undefined, great, it's undefined,
so functions if they don't return,
what we get when we attempt to use
their return value is undefined.
Well, JavaScript has a way of,
sorry, TypeScript has
a way of describing this and
it's with a void return type and
this means specifically that
the return type of this
function should not be used,
it should be ignored.
So we could type these
functions as undefined, right?
So, here's our callback, we have this
is a higher order function to run some
function in four seconds and
here's the thing to run, right?
It returns undefined and then here's
another one invoke in five seconds,
and its return type is void.
So, note that this little
arrow function here,
it happens to return something, why?
Because, although we hardly ever
use it Array.push actually returns
a number that I mean, I don't even
know what this number represents.
We think of it almost like an entirely
state modifying method that
doesn't really return something useful,
it happens to return something.
So, the void case is quite happy with
this, the undefined cases not, so there's
a difference between saying the return
value of this function should be ignored.
Versus, I promise I will
always return undefined,
a void callback here you're fun,
returning whatever you like,
you will be encouraged to not use that
value within the body of this function.
But it's fine if you happen to return
something, whereas in this case up here,
you may not return something versus
here it's like do what you like.
Void is happy with whatever because
we're not going to use it, right?
So, that's the difference and important
difference between void and undefined,
void should only appear as
a function return type.
You should not be using it anywhere
else because what it means is
the return value of this function
should be Ignored and left unused.
Let's talk about construct signatures for
a moment,
this is another area that is sort of rare,
cuz oftentimes we just define classes
which kind of have this sort
of functionality built in.
But we have the ability to do this, so
here's an example of a Date constructor,
and it looks just like a call signature,
except we've added this new
keyword in front of it, that's it.
So now, if I were to create something
that I'm calling, my Date constructor,
set it equal to the date, class itself,
not a new instance of date.
Now you see the TypeScript perfectly
happy to let me instantiate,
you probably won't come across this
very often, but if you see it,
I want you to know what you're looking at.
This, you should come across
function overloads, so,
because this is a Kind of abstract
concept, I wanna motivate the existence
of this thing, function overloads
with a potential use case.
So, let's imagine a situation where
we wanted to create a function that
allows us to register what we're calling
a main event listener where that means,
the primary event of whatever DOM
element we appear to be referring to.
So, in the i frame case, if we're past
an i frame, I want us to be setting up
a post message callback, like we're
communicating with the i frame, right?
That's the main event you care about for
an i frame, if you don't believe me,
let's pretend that it is and then form
would probably want submit, right?
That's a big, meaningful event
that's associated with the form,
so we could give it a shot by
creating two types that represent
sort of our event listeners,
one that receives form data,
one that receives a message event and
this is for the i frame.
And we could say, all right, so my first
element here my first arg it's one
of these two types of elements,
it's either the form or the i frame and
then here we've got the handler for
the form or the i frame, right?
We certainly can handle both cases and
I can get the zeroeth i
frame on the page and
I can try to handle this event.
So here's the i frame, something's already
looking a little bit off here, right?
Because we're not getting any type hint,
we're just getting an any, so
that's not good, we're allowing
a lot of possibilities here.
Basically, we don't have any sense
of saying the first argument
passed to the function has any effect on
which second argument we should accept.
So, to put this more concisely,
what we want,
is when we get a form to strictly
be dealing with submit, and
when we get an i frame to strictly
be dealing with post message,
not a combination of the two,
that might not make any sense.
So, function overloads help us solve this,
and effectively what
we're doing here is we're saying I have
one implementation in my function,
but I wanna define types for
two specific entry points.
One that does the form stuff with
the right element and the right handler,
and one that does the i frame stuff with
the right element and the right handler.
This ensures that I have two specific
prescribed ways of doing things and
I'm not left with all of
the flexibility that I really
don't want to handle such as
this in combination with that,
that would be sort of
like crossing our wires.
So, we can see here if we get our frame
and get a form, this case works for
handling the frame,
we can see we have type information here,
there's our message event and
then in the form case, this works as well.
Let me show you what a failing case
look like, basically, like let
me show you what we can't do anymore,
and that would be something like this.
Actually a better way to Illustrate this
is just to show you what the autocompletes
look like.
So, normally we just get
autocompletes like this and
when we open this up we would just see
like, here's what you should type,
but, look, we got one of two and
two of two, we kind of have two options.
For what we can do here,
the form way, or the i frame way and
note that we don't actually,
we're not offered the arguments
that are described on lines 14 and
15 of this piece of code.
No one's showing us In a union type,
right?
Not for option one,
not for option two, right?
It's one or the other,
we have two choices for the function,
we're not allowed to mix.
And what we're seeing here is that
we can see this, we can see this,
this here is effectively hidden, that's
part of what is allowing us to do this.
It basically means that this is sort of
what's invoked behind the scenes, we can
make this whatever it needs to be in order
to handle all of the cases we care about.
But we can have very specific entry
points that allow us to avoid handling
these combinations of things that
we have no intent of allowing.
So, we would call these two
heads of the function and
then this often is referred to as
an implementation of the function and
this is the only thing that
has the braces, right?
So, an important thing to think about as
you consider using function overloads,
is that the implementation has
to be compatible with the heads.
So, the problem I've created
here is I think I just
deleted the first argument for
this middle bit here and
basically what the implementation
is the error message that we're
getting is that there's just no way for
all of these to line up.
They kind of need to be specific case one,
specific case two for the heads, and then
an implementation that's general enough
to handle anything that might come in.
But in this case it's sort of broken,
right?
Meaning, we're only accepting
one element here, it's,
we need something else,
if we were to, for example,
just say look,
I'm gonna take another argument,
And we need to see the fact that, we have
this type here, we need to allow for
a possibility that an i frame
element might come through.
So, this almost,
it has to be general enough that it could
type check against any
combination of the head above it.
So, these are almost like
specific cases that live within
the type described by this hidden piece.
It's a really powerful tool that lets
you have greater opportunities for
code reuse, because you can have
something that is very carefully
designed with specific entry points,
while having some very general
shared logic that backs all
of those function signatures.